(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.) 32 million votes in 48 hours and no
internet.
That sounds impossible, right?
In Tanzania's 2025 election, officials announced that nearly
32 million votes were counted in under two
days.
Even as internet access was restricted, electricity was
unstable and observers struggled to verify results.
President Samir Sululu Hassan was declared the winner
with more than 97% of the vote,
a figure that raised as many eyebrows as
it did questions.
Across the border, countries like Kenya often take
days, sometimes weeks to finalise results, even with
full digital systems and media scrutiny.
Some call Tanzania's count efficiency, others call it
control.
But it made me wonder, how transparent is
a vote when the world can't see it?
Because this isn't just about Tanzania, it's about
trust.
When we talk about democracy in Africa, the
question isn't how fast votes are counted, it's
how credible the process really is.
If you've ever wondered how democracy looks when
the lights go off, this story will stay
with you.
This is the Africa you're not shown, but
I'm here to show you.